
To:      New Bulgarian University
From:    Pentti Kanerva
Subject: Alexander Petrov's Ph.D. thesis
Date:    21 July 1998

I have examined Alexander Petrov's Ph.D. thesis "A Dynamic Emergent
Computational Model of Analogy-making Based on Decentralized
Representations" and judge it to be of high quality, meeting the
requirements for a doctoral dissertation.

The thesis is a study of analogy as a problem in cognitive science.
Its model of analogy-making is based on AMBR (Associative Memory-
Based Reasoning) that runs on a cognitive simulation architecture
DUAL, programmed in Lisp.  DUAL and AMBR were conceived by Petrov's
thesis advisor Boicho Kokinov and emphasize parallel processing
under decentralized control, in the vein of Hofstadter's Copycat
and Minsky's Society of Mind.  They employ mechanisms found in other
models of analogy-making (e.g., symbolic representation of situations
as in Gentner's [et al.] SME and MAC/FAC, and search by constraint
satisfaction as in Holyoak & Thagard's ACME and ARCS).

As a graduate student at the New Bulgarian University, Petrov has
worked with DUAL and AMBR, has become thoroughly familiar with them,
and has contributed materially to their design.  In his thesis he
challenges the idea that two subprocesses of analogy-making, retrieval
or access and mapping, are separable cognitive modules as suggested
by the structure of FAC/MAC.  `Retrieval' means identifying (in long-
term memory) a whole situation--an analog--that corresponds to the
one under consideration--the target--and `mapping' means identifying
corresponding or analogical parts of the two wholes.  He argues,
instead, that retrieval and mapping interact so that a partial result
of mapping can influence retrieval, and he cites experimental evidence
in support of the argument.  He then shows by simulation that an
AMBR model retrieves better analogs from its long-term memory when
retrieval interacts with mapping than when they happen strictly in
sequence.  Although this does not prove how our brains in fact make
analogies, it supports the idea that they may evolve toward the
interactive design.

The thesis stresses DUAL's hybrid architecture: the inclusion of both
symbolic and connectionist processing.  However, these different kinds
of processing cooperate rather than being integrated, and distributed
representation is excluded, so that DUAL is a rather conventional
kind of hybrid.  Recent research on distributed representation (e.g.,
Hinton's semantic nets [old work], Smolensky's tensor products,
Pollack's RAAM, Plate's Holographic Reduced Representation, Hummel &
Holyoak's LISA, and my Spatter code) points to the possibility of
a fundamental integration of symbolic and connectionist processing,
with clear implications to analogy-making.  Compared to traditional
representation, distributed representations are lifelike and should
allow us to build models in which high-level cognition is emergent to
much greater extent and in more subtle ways than it is in our present
models.  Our models should at once become both simpler and truer.
This possibility is overlooked in "Models of Analogy-Making" (p. 9)
and in "Suggestions for Future Research" (p. 108).

The style of writing is dramatized, with agents, coalitions,
secretaries, winners, losers, and so forth.  Vivid images make
writing accessible, but not without risks.  The danger is in being
superficial, of implying more than one is entitled to say based on
what one knows, of covering up incomplete thought or argument.  I
did not find that to be the case here, but at times I was distracted
by an image of an agent busy winning battles and being promoted when
it was more helpful to think of a node in a graph.

The thesis demonstrates good knowledge and understanding of modeling
in cognitive science, and it includes original contributions to such
modeling.  It is exceptionally well organized and clearly presented.
It has the marks of the beginning of a productive scientific career.
I warmly recommend its acceptance as thesis toward a doctoral degree
in cognitive science.


Pentti Kanerva, Ph.D.
Swedish Institute of Computer Science

