                                        New Bulgarian University
                                        Department of Cognitive Science


         R E C O R D   O F   E X A M I N A T I O N


   On July 19, 1997 a Master Thesis defence took place. The thesis
Committee included:
  Prof. Naum Yakimov, PhD (New Bulgarian University), Chairman of the Committee
  Assoc. Prof. Zdravko Markov, PhD (New Bulgarian University)
  Prof. Linda Smith, PhD (Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA)
  Prof. William Hirst, PhD (New School of Social Research, New York, USA)
  Prof. Werner Tack, PdD (University of Saarland, Saarbruecken, Germany)


   This was a public event which took place during the 4th International
Summer School in Cognitive Science and before the international audience of
the Summer School participants.

   Alexander Alexandrov Petrov, a graduate student at the Cognitive Science
Program at NBU, presented his M.Sc. Thesis on "Extensions of DUAL and AMBR".
Both the text of his thesis and the oral presentation were in English.

   After the oral presentation Alexander Petrov had to answer a number of
questions and reply to the comments made by the members of the Thesis
Committee.

   Each of the members of the Committee presented a written review of his
thesis and orally presented her/his opinion. Their reviews are enclosed with
this record and are to be considered as part of it.

   Finally, the Thesis Committee made the following decisions:

   1. The content of the Thesis and its quality meets the international
      standards for a M.Sc. Thesis in Cognitive Science and is marked
      with Excellent (6.00).
   2. Taking into account the course work and the academic records of Alexander
      Petrov as well as the thesis defence the Committee awards him a
      Master of Science degree.
   3. Alexander Petrov is admitted to the PhD phase of the Cognitive Science
      Program.


Thesis Committee signatures:

   Prof. Naum Yakimov                 (signature)
   Assoc. Prof. Zdravko Markov        (signature)
   Prof. Linda Smith                  (signature)
   Prof. William Hirst                (signature)
   Prof. Werner Tack                  (signature)
